medium-problems/medium-problems.md, before:

# Medium level problems 

I noticed top tech companies typically ask medium level questions and follow up with more medium level problems that are related to the first problem. 

In a 50 minute interview it's typicallly structured like 

1. 5 minute pleasantries - "Hi, my name is" 
2. 40 minutes of coding 
    + 5 minutes to break it down conceptually, ask questions, go through examples
    + 20 minutes to code the first original problem 
    + 10 answering and/or coding follow up questions 
    + 5 summarazing your answer and going through your code. cleaning things up. "productionizing"? 
3. 5 minutes of additional question asking "work culture, side projects, tech stack, challenges, etc" 

Algoexperts has 55 medium level questions. Leetcode has an additional couple hundred to sift through. :cry: 

# *August 06, 2021* 

Solved :pencil:  

+ `bst-construction` - searching, insertion, deletion. Deletion edge cases are difficult. If I were to have to do this in 15 minutes I'd get really pressured. Psyduck. 
+ `validate-bst` - This is easier when every key is unique. Slight nuances depending on exact interview question when there should be <= >= for each node value in the true compared to the left and right subtrees. Iterative approach doesn't work as well when theres a equal to greater than case. Recursive code is so short and simple yet so hard to put together. 
+ `balanced-brackets` - This one is kind of fun. I consider an *easy* level rather than a medium. Have to be care of the case of `([`. The stack must be empty at the end of the string iteration to be considered a balanced string.  

Evaluation :trollface: 

Got to be careful of setting up the recursion functions well. I noticed I'm much better at iteration versus recursion. But I need to think of the fact that the first function call is basically at the bottom of the period and you have to keep adding to the call stack until we reach the top of the pyramid. Then we hand down the result to lower levels of the pyramid. In most cases reaching the bottom of the pyramid yet again is how the solution is derived. 


# *August 12, 2021*

Solved :pencil: 

+ Nada

Evaluation :trollface: 

Body condition kind of sucks again today. I don't know why I keep waking up much earlier than I have to and not being able to fall back asleep. 

# *August 13, 2021*

Solved :pencil: 

+ `three-number-sum` - I got this one conceptually but started to get confused during implementation. 
+ `smallest-difference` - I couldn't figure this one out. 
+ `move-element-to-end` - not so bad as long as realize the pointers need to be set at start and end. I was trying to fast/slow pointer approach which is just, i, i+1; This doesn't work out so much.  

Evaluation :trollface: 

Much better day today! 

# *August 14, 2021*  

+ `monotonic-array` - This one is pretty easy actually. 
+ `spiral-traverse` - This is really great practice for me since I'm surprisingly bad at 2 for loop logic. It's so easy to see visually but tracking all these pointers makes me so sleepy. I'm almost fell asleep 10 times doing this, omg. 
+ `longest-peak` - This problem is kind of confusing 

Evaluation :trollface: 

Got really distracted by Community Eevee Day in Pogo. Also I think I slept 5 hours last night which has rendered me basically braindead. 


# *August 15, 2021* 

1.  `longest peak` - The next day it still doesn't make sense to me. :( Going to move on for now. 
2. `array of products` - Can't use division when it's the obvious thing to do hmm. Utilizing extra space with a left and right array. And then optimizing further was the solution. O(n^2) solution takes 2 seconds but figuring out 1 pass solution took me quite a while. 
3.  `first duplicate value` -  Optimal space complexity is interesting.... because you utilize negative numbers since you know the number must be between `[1..n]` using a negative number to use the array to double as a hashMap. The solution with HashMap is easier to understand. 

Evaluation :trollface: 

My back burns from constantly sitting down in wrong posture. Also my roommates keep playing TikTok at maxmimum volume so it's hard to focus. Going to invest in better noise cancelling headphones 

# *August 16, 2021* 

Day off. 

# *August 17, 2021* 

1. `merge overlapping variables` -  Very difficult for me. Will review again later
2. `BST Traversal` - Easy one actually 

# *August 18, 2021* 

Focused on working on my businesses. 

# *August 19, 2021*
1. `Min Height BST` -  Easy when you follow the solution but hard to put the code together. Still very weak at recursion + trees. 
2. `Find Kth Largest Value In BST` - This one is actually kind of easy. 
3. `
Reconstruct BST` - This one is really difficult 
# *August 25, 2021* 

Darn I did no studying for 5 consecutive days. This is why they say building momentum is so important. 

1.`Invert Binary Tree` - pretty easy after you see the solution for yourself, sadly difficult to put together on the spot. 
2. `Binary Tree Diameter` - Difficult 

# *August 26, 2021* 

1. `Find successor` - Not too bad if you just do an in order traversal and use extra space. 
2. 

# Random thoughts 

## Tools to dominate certain questions 

Think in terms of what utilizing a negative number can do you for you when the input is gauranteed to be a certain subset that is positive** This is how you can remember data without utilizing a hashmap. 

## Ternary Operator. 
`booleanExpression ? expression1 : expression2` - Somehow I sometimes get the ? and : position confused... lol.  

## Adding numbers to ArrayList<Integer> quickly 
```java
ArrayList<Integer> array = new ArrayList<Integer>(Arrays.asList( 2, 1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 2 ));
```
**Arrays.asList()** 

## Setting numbers in an ArrayList 
```java 
array.set(index, element); // Index first, element second. You can't set with .get() 
``` 

## Arrays sort with directions 

```java
Arrays.sort(sortedIntervals, (a, b) -> Integer.compare(a[0], b[0]));  
```

Commit message:

Max subset with non adjacent numbers - easy DP

medium-problems/medium-problems.md, after:

# Medium level problems 

I noticed top tech companies typically ask medium level questions and follow up with more medium level problems that are related to the first problem. 

In a 50 minute interview it's typicallly structured like 

1. 5 minute pleasantries - "Hi, my name is" 
2. 40 minutes of coding 
    + 5 minutes to break it down conceptually, ask questions, go through examples
    + 20 minutes to code the first original problem 
    + 10 answering and/or coding follow up questions 
    + 5 summarazing your answer and going through your code. cleaning things up. "productionizing"? 
3. 5 minutes of additional question asking "work culture, side projects, tech stack, challenges, etc" 

Algoexperts has 55 medium level questions. Leetcode has an additional couple hundred to sift through. :cry: 

# *August 06, 2021* 

Solved :pencil:  

+ `bst-construction` - searching, insertion, deletion. Deletion edge cases are difficult. If I were to have to do this in 15 minutes I'd get really pressured. Psyduck. 
+ `validate-bst` - This is easier when every key is unique. Slight nuances depending on exact interview question when there should be <= >= for each node value in the true compared to the left and right subtrees. Iterative approach doesn't work as well when theres a equal to greater than case. Recursive code is so short and simple yet so hard to put together. 
+ `balanced-brackets` - This one is kind of fun. I consider an *easy* level rather than a medium. Have to be care of the case of `([`. The stack must be empty at the end of the string iteration to be considered a balanced string.  

Evaluation :trollface: 

Got to be careful of setting up the recursion functions well. I noticed I'm much better at iteration versus recursion. But I need to think of the fact that the first function call is basically at the bottom of the period and you have to keep adding to the call stack until we reach the top of the pyramid. Then we hand down the result to lower levels of the pyramid. In most cases reaching the bottom of the pyramid yet again is how the solution is derived. 


# *August 12, 2021*

Solved :pencil: 

+ Nada

Evaluation :trollface: 

Body condition kind of sucks again today. I don't know why I keep waking up much earlier than I have to and not being able to fall back asleep. 

# *August 13, 2021*

Solved :pencil: 

+ `three-number-sum` - I got this one conceptually but started to get confused during implementation. 
+ `smallest-difference` - I couldn't figure this one out. 
+ `move-element-to-end` - not so bad as long as realize the pointers need to be set at start and end. I was trying to fast/slow pointer approach which is just, i, i+1; This doesn't work out so much.  

Evaluation :trollface: 

Much better day today! 

# *August 14, 2021*  

+ `monotonic-array` - This one is pretty easy actually. 
+ `spiral-traverse` - This is really great practice for me since I'm surprisingly bad at 2 for loop logic. It's so easy to see visually but tracking all these pointers makes me so sleepy. I'm almost fell asleep 10 times doing this, omg. 
+ `longest-peak` - This problem is kind of confusing 

Evaluation :trollface: 

Got really distracted by Community Eevee Day in Pogo. Also I think I slept 5 hours last night which has rendered me basically braindead. 


# *August 15, 2021* 

1.  `longest peak` - The next day it still doesn't make sense to me. :( Going to move on for now. 
2. `array of products` - Can't use division when it's the obvious thing to do hmm. Utilizing extra space with a left and right array. And then optimizing further was the solution. O(n^2) solution takes 2 seconds but figuring out 1 pass solution took me quite a while. 
3.  `first duplicate value` -  Optimal space complexity is interesting.... because you utilize negative numbers since you know the number must be between `[1..n]` using a negative number to use the array to double as a hashMap. The solution with HashMap is easier to understand. 

Evaluation :trollface: 

My back burns from constantly sitting down in wrong posture. Also my roommates keep playing TikTok at maxmimum volume so it's hard to focus. Going to invest in better noise cancelling headphones 

# *August 16, 2021* 

Day off. 

# *August 17, 2021* 

1. `merge overlapping variables` -  Very difficult for me. Will review again later
2. `BST Traversal` - Easy one actually 

# *August 18, 2021* 

Focused on working on my businesses. 

# *August 19, 2021*
1. `Min Height BST` -  Easy when you follow the solution but hard to put the code together. Still very weak at recursion + trees. 
2. `Find Kth Largest Value In BST` - This one is actually kind of easy. 

Reconstruct BST` - This one is really difficult 
# *August 25, 2021* 

Darn I did no studying for 5 consecutive days. This is why they say building momentum is so important. 

1.`Invert Binary Tree` - pretty easy after you see the solution for yourself, sadly difficult to put together on the spot. 
2. `Binary Tree Diameter` - Difficult 

# *August 26, 2021* 

1. `Find successor` - Not too bad if you just do an in order traversal and use extra space. 
2. `Height Balanced Tree` - This is kind of similar to Binary Tree diameter actually.  
 
 # *August 27, 2021* 

 1. `Max subset of non adjacent numbers`  - This problem is quite interesting 
 2. 

# Random thoughts 

## Tools to dominate certain questions 

Think in terms of what utilizing a negative number can do you for you when the input is gauranteed to be a certain subset that is positive** This is how you can remember data without utilizing a hashmap. 

## Ternary Operator. 
`booleanExpression ? expression1 : expression2` - Somehow I sometimes get the ? and : position confused... lol.  

## Adding numbers to ArrayList<Integer> quickly 
```java
ArrayList<Integer> array = new ArrayList<Integer>(Arrays.asList( 2, 1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 2 ));
```
**Arrays.asList()** 

## Setting numbers in an ArrayList 
```java 
array.set(index, element); // Index first, element second. You can't set with .get() 
``` 

## Arrays sort with directions 

```java
Arrays.sort(sortedIntervals, (a, b) -> Integer.compare(a[0], b[0]));  
```
